# Introduction

This component creates CORS details for your application. If the
`CorsMiddleware` detects a `CORS preflight`, the middleware will start do detect
the proper `CORS` configuration. The `Router` is being used to detect every
allowed request method by executing a route match with all possible request
methods. Therefore, for every preflight request, there is at least one `Router`
request (depending on the configuration of the route, it might be just one or we
are executing a check for **every** request method).

Here is a list of the request methods being checked for the `CORS preflight`
information:

- DELETE
- GET
- HEAD
- OPTIONS
- PATCH
- POST
- PUT
- TRACE

The order of the headers might vary, depending on what request method is being
requested with the `CORS preflight` request. In the end, the response contains
**every** possible request method of the route due to what the router tells the
`ConfigurationLocator`.

The allowed origins can be configured as strings which can be matched with
[`fnmatch`](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.fnmatch.php). Therefore,
wildcards are possible.

## Features

mezzio-cors provides a [`CorsMiddleware`](middleware.md) which works out of the
box with once created a global configuration file. It can safely be added to the
projects pipeline as CORS details are needed for *every* request (in case its a
CORS request).

It uses the [mezzio-router](https://github.com/mezzio/mezzio-router) to match
the incoming URI. It starts with the HTTP request method which is provided by
the Request via the `Access-Control-Request-Method` header and checks *all*
request methods until it matches a route. If that route states to be explicit,
the response is created immediately.

If the route is not explicit, *all* request methods are checked to provide a
list of possible request methods to the client.
